"""
ROTK7 stuff

Spy (**)
--- 
Increases the effectiveness of the Spy command. Information on cities near 
the target city can sometimes be obtained.

Comments: As Sun Tzu said, know the enemy and know yourself and you can win 
any battle. This will at least help with the former. The information on 
additional cities is an added bonus. This is a good skill to have if you want 
to expand your Officer contacts in other cities.

Invent (****)
------
Allows the officer to create advanced weapons when using the Forge command. 
This skill is required to create the Arbalest, Fireball, Tower, Catapult, and 
Wood Ox Arms. The city must have the required Tech level and access to the 
materials needed in order to invent new Arms.

Comments: In the later battles of the game, the enemy will have Arbalests 
available to them, along with Officers with the Missile and Volley skills. 
This means that a unit with an Arbalest can use an arrow attack up to ten 
times in a single turn with a lucky shot (I've done it myself once or twice). 
The best way to counter that is to have Arbalests of your own (and the 
Counter skill, he he he). If you have this skill, you are going to be very 
popular with your Prefect when Arbalests, Towers, and Catapults become 
available.

Tame (**)
----
Allows the creation of Elephant units (Only available in Yong Chang).

Comments: While Elephant units are indeed powerful, the fact that you can 
only obtain them in one city somewhat limits the usefulness of this skill.

Trade (***)
-----
Gives discounts when buying items or food from the merchant.

Comments: Items can be incredibly helpful when you're starting out, and are 
essential in the later stages of the game. Depending on the scenario you can 
obtain +10 Items fairly early in the game from the merchants. Having this 
skill makes your shopping sprees a bit easier on your funds.

Counter (***)
-------
Enables an Officer to counterattack against certain attacks that normally 
cannot be countered such as Arrow, Missile, and Volley. Officer must have a 
missile weapon to counter attack.

Comments: The value of this skill depends on how frequently you are assigned 
a Crossbow unit (or Foot with Bow) and how frequently the enemy uses archers 
in battle. Late in the game most countries produce Crossbow units en masse. 
This skill makes you a formidable opponent against enemy archers on the field 
of battle, especially if you have an Arbalest.

Reversal (****)
--------
Enables an Officer to redirect certain ploys used against his or her unit in 
battle such as Fire, Confusion, Stop, and Taunt back to the enemy Officer.

Comments: This skill doesn't work all the time, but when it does it can be a 
real lifesaver. It seems to work well against fire attacks.

Aid (***)
---
Allows the Officer to use the Aid Tactic in battle. Aid removes status 
effects from units that have been affected by ploys such as Confuse, Taunt, 
and Stop.

Comments: Many of your fellow Officers in battle will have high WAR but low 
INT. As a result, they are easy targets for Tactics such as Confuse and 
Taunt. If you're not in a position to attack the enemy, you might as well 
help out where you can. Aid is invaluable in such situations. Remember that 
you can use this Tactic on yourself as well. Aid is great for recovering from 
the Chain Ploy.

Scout (***)
-----
Officers with this skill have a field on view in battle unaffected by 
weather. During Probe movement traps are discovered 100% of the time.

Comments: Running into the enemy due to bad weather not only ends your 
movement for the turn, but gives them a free attack as well. Having an 
increased sight radius is very helpful in poor field conditions. 
Automatically discovering traps during Probe movement is an added bonus.

Valor (*****)
-----
Officers with this skill do not take additional damage from being surrounded 
by enemy units in battle.

Comments: One of the best skills in the game. Enemy units love to surround 
you in battle often. If you don't have this skill you can be cut to pieces in 
one or two turns, especially if you're facing strong opponents. Enemy units 
with this skill are true nightmares, usually tying up your advance single 
handedly while you try to whittle their Troops down with repeated attacks.

Charge (****)
------
Allows Officer to make a charge attack against an enemy in battle. Charge 
attacks may hit an enemy multiple times, and may push the target unit back 
one square as well.

Comments: This is a great skill to have, especially when you have an enemy 
surrounded, or if you want to knock a unit out of their outpost. Just 
remember that sometimes it is better to use a direct attack rather than a 
charge. Otherwise you may end up knocking an enemy away from being 
surrounded, or allow a unit to slip past through to your outpost. Note that 
Officers that are using Horse, Calvary, or Elephant units can use charge 
attacks even without this skill.

Duel (* or *****)
----
Allows Officer to challenge opposing officers to a duel in battle. Officers 
without this ability are at a serious disadvantage in a duel.

Comments: The value of this skill depends on the combat abilities of your 
Officer. If your Officer doesn't go hunting often or is never invited to 
tournaments, this skill is only average in value since most Officers will 
refuse to duel with you, and if you're not the fighting type you won't be 
dueling Officers anyway. If you're an Officer with high WAR, odds are you 
will encounter many tigers during your hunting trips, and will often be 
invited to tournaments. If this is the case, then this skill is invaluable. 
If you don't have this skill you are going to be beaten fairly badly even if 
your WAR is fairly high.

Dash (****)
----
Allows an Officer to use the Dash ability in battle. Dash movement allows for 
a much longer range of movement for the turn, but reduces the Officer's Troop 
level.

Comments: This skill can be incredibly helpful in many situations. Just don't 
abuse it or you will face the consequences. The movement advantage gained in 
a single turn can mean the difference between victory and defeat. Remember 
that when you dash you cannot probe for traps.

Repair (*)
------
Allows an Officer to repair the city wall during a siege battle.

Comments: You're usually better off attacking the enemy at your gates rather 
than trying to repair the walls. Could be useful if you just need to buy just 
a little more time.

Navy (***)
----
Officers with this skill are at an advantage when fighting on water.

Comments: Warriors should learn this skill if they can, as it gives them an 
advantage in naval conflicts. Note that this skill helps when fighting on 
rivers and lakes as well. This does not affect movement rates on water 
however.

Missile (***)
-------
Allows an Officer to make a fire arrow attack. Fire arrow attacks are 
stronger than regular arrow attacks, and may set a fire in the target square. 
This attack cannot be used during Rain, Storm, or Snow weather.

Comments: This skill is great if you are assigned archery units regularly. If 
you have an Arbalest it gets even better.

Volley (***)
------
Allows an officer to make a volley attack in battle hitting multiple targets 
at long range. All squares adjacent to the target square are hit. Friendly 
units within range are hit as well. The firing Officer's unit will not be hit 
if it is within range.

Comments: Once again the value of this skill is dependent on how often you 
are assigned archery units. Just remember that if one of your own units is in 
the line of fire, be sure to weigh the advantages of making a volley attack. 
It goes without saying that you should try to hit as many of the enemy as 
possible without hitting your own units.

Riot (*)
----
Allows the officer to use the Riot Ploy.

Comments: Riot isn't a very effective Ploy, so you can pass on this one.

Wile (*)
---- 
Allows the officer to use the Chain, Discord, and Lure Ploys.

Comments: Chain is very useful in battles where there are large bodies of 
water. Other than that the rest of the Ploys are only marginally useful.

Rumor (****)
-----
Allows the officer to use the Rumor and Falsify Ploys.

Comments: While Rumor is very powerful, there are some things you should 
remember. Officers that leave the field are still available to defend the 
city during a siege battle. And Rumor can drive off an Officer with 1,000 
Foot that was about to be defeated anyway, instead of driving off an Officer 
with 20,000 Calvary. But even despite of this, Rumor is an excellent Ploy to 
even out the battlefield.

Chart (*)
-----
Allows the officer to use the Wind, Weather, and Lightning Ploys.

Comments: None of these Ploys are very effective so you can pass on this one.

Flood (*)
-----
Allows the officer to use the Flood Ploy.

Comments: Good for siege battles and not much else.

Rally (**)
-----
Allows the officer to use the Rally Ploy.

Comments: Remember that Rally not only increases your Morale, but also 
removes all status effects from your units. If you are losing badly though 
this won't help very much.

Jeer (**)
----
Allows the officer to use the Jeer Ploy.

Comments: Jeer isn't too effective unless the enemy Morale was low to begin 
with. It can be useful in some close battles though.

Sap (*)
---
Allows the officer to use the Sap Ploy.

Comments: Good for siege battles and not much else.

Mystic (***)
------
Allows the officer to use the Haste, Lightning, Revive, Illusion, Lure, and 
Falsify Ploys. This skill cannot be learned.

Comments: This is a very useful skill to have for the Haste and Revive Ploys. 
If you're not a Tactician this skill can be useful when patrolling and the 
peasants want you to pray for rain. If you have this skill you will be 
successful 100% of the time.

Bless (***)
-----
Allows the use of Creatures in battle. The Officer must have the Creature 
Item in order to use this. This skill is only given to those chosen by the 
Southern and Northern Mystics. The Officer must be in the top ten of the 
Heroes Ranking and have at least four units available. 

Comments: This skill is more for show than anything else. While having the 
ability to use Creatures can definitely turn the tide of battle, you do have 
to hunt for them again each time you use them. 

Zeal (*****)
----
Increases the amount of AP recovered each month.

Comments: This one is a no-brainer. Get this skill as soon as humanly 
possible.

Study (*****)
-----
Increases the effectiveness of the Train and Tutor commands.

Comments: This one is also a no-brainer. Get this skill as soon as humanly 
possible.

Doctor (***)
------
Officers with this skill fully recover health when injured in the next month. 
They can also heal injured visiting Officers and use the Revive Ploy. This 
skill cannot be learned.

Comments: This is a useful skill to have when the plague runs rampant. The 
ability to use the Revive Ploy is also invaluable.

Oracle (*)
------
This skill has random effects when invoked on the battlefield. Officers with 
this skill can also foresee other Officers who are nearing the end of their 
lifespan. This skill cannot be learned.

Comments: It's fun to visit Officers with this skill, but other than that 
this skill is definitely more for amusement than anything else. 

Critic (*)
------
Officers with this skill will occasionally evaluate visitors, sometimes 
increasing their Fame. This skill cannot be learned.

Comments: This skill does nothing for you personally, but it's fun to visit 
other Officers with this skill.

Wealth (***)
------
Increases the amount an officer receives for his wages each month. This 
officer will also give money to visitors occasionally. This skill cannot be 
learned.

Comments: More money is always good. If you have this and the Trade skill you 
can rack up an impressive Item collection in record time.
"""
